# Dev Diary: First Progression

_18.04.2020_

## Intro

Recently (more like whole last year) I did work a lot with the [`serverless framework`].
While my experience with it mostly is positive, I couldn't come around the point, that I had one big issue with it.
See when writing IAC (even when it may only be a YAML file) I try to stay in my zone\*.
But I personally can only achieve this when I stay inside my IDE, working with auto-completion, describing hover fields using shortcuts and so on.

\* _The zone is usually described as a state-of-mind where one feels productive and hyper-focused ([source](https://www.kenneth-truyers.net/2015/10/05/programming-in-the-zone/))_

Here's the point.
While the [`serverless framework`] is still kinda _"new"_ there aren't any extensive developer tools around it available right now.
Only helpers I found were some simple "code snippet" extensions in VS Code.
Not really my style.
So to speak, I tried to implement the change I needed.

In my time working with (and crafting) developer tools I did also come around so called `language server`.
To not reinvent the wheel, let me extract a quote from the [`Microsoft Github Repository`] for the [`Language Server Protocol (LSP)`].

> Adding features like auto complete, go to definition, or documentation on hover for a programming language takes significant effort.
> Traditionally this work had to be repeated for each development tool, as each tool provides different APIs for implementing the same feature.
> A Language Server is meant to provide the language-specific smarts and communicate with development tools over a protocol that enables inter-process communication.

Therefore my goal was well defined.
A language server developed for the [`serverless framework`] would possibly bring all the features to life I wanted.

## In the beginning

To make that clear.
I never developed a language server.
That implies I had to do lots of researching before I could even think of any line of code.

But even before trying to understand the language server protocol, I needed to define some capabilities I try to develop. You can't work on a project without a scope am I right?

I've choosen to work in GitHub with projects, issues, and the freshly released `actions`.
So lets see what my mind came up with.

<!-- USER STORIES HERE -->

---

<!-- Talk some more about LSP -->

## Let's do it

Enough of researching.
I want to code.
See some progress.
As you may read between the lines, I am a VS Code sheep.
Therefore to keep the first iteration simple, I try to stay inside that environment.
And by that I mean, I fired up the [yeoman generator for vs code extensions].
Merging in my common developer tools (babel, eslint, prettier, ...) I was able to hit the keys.

Now, I would be lying if I said, there weren't any complications.
But lets start easy.
What I need is the vscode-language-client and the vscode-languageserver.
When my extension is activated (Latest when ever a `severless.yml` file is opened) it will fire up a language client-server pack.
Those two processes will be communicating on different occasions, e.g. when a watched file does change or a user hovers over a symbol.
So to see some action I was starting with a language server, that would **always** recommend to autocomplete the word `service` if a user starts to type the character 's'.

<!-- GIF HERE -->

[`serverless framework`]: https://serverless.com
[`microsoft github repository`]: https://github.com/microsoft/language-server-protocol
[`language server protocol (lsp)`]: https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/
[yeoman generator for vs code extensions]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/generator-code
